# ReaviewRealm


ReviewRealm utilizes NLP techniques like Vader Sentiment Analysis, NLTK, and RAKE to analyze customer reviews and provide valuable insights for smarter purchasing and marketing decisions . The backend is made using python for extra security, Jupyter notebook for creating and sharing computational documents and Mongo for databases(atlas and compass)

## ReviewRealm Frontend

Visualize customer sentiment for smarter purchasing and marketing decisions :sparkles:

ReviewRealm is a sentiment analysis-based review visualization platform that aims to help consumers make informed purchasing decisions. The platform is designed to scrape reviews from a given Amazon URL, perform sentiment analysis on the text, and generate a word cloud that categorizes the words used in the reviews. This word cloud provides an easy-to-read visualization of the overall sentiment towards the product, as well as the most frequently used terms in the reviews.

The frontend of ReviewRealm is built using ReactJS. It includes a user interface for providing a valid Amazon URL, and for displaying the word cloud generated by the backend.


### Installation

To run the frontend, please follow the below steps:

Install Node.js and npm.  

For faster development, we recommend using Vite with React. Vite is a build tool that provides an extremely fast development experience with hot module replacement and lightning-fast cold start.  

Install the required dependencies using npm install.
```bash
  cd reviewViz-frontend
  npm install --legacy-peer-deps
```

Run the development server using `npm dev`.
    
### Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!  

Please feel free to submit pull requests and report any issues or bugs that you encounter.

### Running of Frontend and generating Localhost Port:

Install the npm by using the command:
```bash
npm i
```
And after that run the command:
```bash
npm run dev
```
to run the server adn then copy the port and run the website 

## ReviewRealm Backend

Visualize customer sentiment for smarter purchasing and marketing decisions :sparkles:

ReviewRealm is a sentiment analysis-based review visualization platform that aims to help consumers make informed purchasing decisions. The platform is designed to scrape reviews from a given Amazon URL, perform sentiment analysis on the text, and generate a word cloud that categorizes the words used in the reviews. This word cloud provides an easy-to-read visualization of the overall sentiment towards the product, as well as the most frequently used terms in the reviews.

The backend of ReviewRealm is built using FastAPI and MongoDB. It includes user registration and login functionality, as well as token-based authentication using JWT Tokens. The scraper used internally is asynchronous to handle large requests concurrently.



### Environment Variables

Rename the `.env.sample` file to `.env`.  
To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

`MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI`  
`SECRET_KEY` 

The `MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI`  can be found out from the Atlas dashboard or if using locally, attach your localhost connection string.  

Generate `SECRET_KEY` using the following command:
```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```


### Installation

To run the backend, please follow the below steps:
Install pipenv using pip install pipenv.  
Then in the folder, run the following commands:
```bash
  pipenv install
  pipenv run python initial-nlp-libraries.py 
```
This would install the libraries required with NLTK to the `nltk_data` directory.  

Now run the following commands:
```bash
  pipenv run python -m app
```
The server should now be up and running on `localhost:8100`.
### API Reference

The API documentation is available at `localhost:8100/docs`.   
This provides detailed information about the available endpoints and their parameters.
### Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!  
Please feel free to submit pull requests and report any issues or bugs that you encounter.

### Running of backend

The backend will run by using the command :
bash
python app.py

when already in the backend directory.


### If not in the backend directory, use the command :
bash
cd ReviewRealm-backend

on terminal to go to the directory of backend and then use the command given above to run the backend.


