
# ReviewRealm Frontend

Visualize customer sentiment for smarter purchasing and marketing decisions :sparkles:

ReviewRealm is a sentiment analysis-based review visualization platform that aims to help consumers make informed purchasing decisions. The platform is designed to scrape reviews from a given Amazon URL, perform sentiment analysis on the text, and generate a word cloud that categorizes the words used in the reviews. This word cloud provides an easy-to-read visualization of the overall sentiment towards the product, as well as the most frequently used terms in the reviews.

The frontend of ReviewRealm is built using ReactJS. It includes a user interface for providing a valid Amazon URL, and for displaying the word cloud generated by the backend.


## Installation

To run the frontend, please follow the below steps:

Install Node.js and npm.  

For faster development, we recommend using Vite with React. Vite is a build tool that provides an extremely fast development experience with hot module replacement and lightning-fast cold start.  

Install the required dependencies using npm install.
```bash
  cd reviewViz-frontend
  npm install --legacy-peer-deps
```

Run the development server using `npm dev`.
    
## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!  

Please feel free to submit pull requests and report any issues or bugs that you encounter.

## Running of Frontend and generating Localhost Port:

Install the npm by using the command:
```bash
npm i
```
And after that run the command:
```bash
npm run dev
```
to run the server adn then copy the port and run the website 
